.TH LH_BINARY 1 "2007\-08\-27" "1.0~a25" "live\-helper"

.SH NAME
lh_binary \- meta\-helper for lh_binary_*

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lh_binary [\fIlive\-helper\ options\fR\|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lh_binary is a meta\-helper. It calls all necessary helpers to complete the binary stage.

.SH BINARY HELPERS
Here is the complete list of available binary helper commands. See their man pages for additional documentation.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_chroot\fR(1)" 4
copies chroot into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_debian-installer\fR(1)" 4
copies debian-installer into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_encryption\fR(1)" 4
encrypts the root filesystem.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_grub\fR(1)" 4
copies grub into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_tar\fR(1)" 4
creates the harddisk binary tarball.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_includes\fR(1)" 4
copies files into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_iso\fR(1)" 4
creates the CD/DVD binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_linux-image\fR(1)" 4
copies linux\-image into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_local-includes\fR(1)" 4
copies local files into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_manifest\fR(1)" 4
creates the package list of the root filesystem.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_md5sum\fR(1)" 4
creates md5sum.txt in the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_memtest\fR(1)" 4
copies a memtest into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_net\fR(1)" 4
creates the netboot binary tarball.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_rootfs\fR(1)" 4
creates the root filesystem.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_syslinux\fR(1)" 4
copies syslinux into the binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_usb-hdd\fR(1)" 4
creates the USB-hdd binary image.
.IP "\fIlh_binary_yaboot\fR(1)" 4
copies yaboot into the binary image.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlive\-helper\fR(7)
.PP
This program is a part of live\-helper.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs against live\-helper <\fIhttp://packages.qa.debian.org/live\-helper\fR>.

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about the Debian Live project can be found at <\fIhttp://debian\-live.alioth.debian.org/\fR> and <\fIhttp://wiki.debian.org/DebianLive/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
live\-helper was written by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel@debian.org\fR> for the Debian project.
