.TH LH_CHROOT 1 "2007\-04\-02" "1.0~a4" "live\-helper"

.SH NAME
lh_chroot \- meta-helper for lh_chroot_*

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lh_chroot [\fIlive\-helper\ options\fR\|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lh_chroot is a meta-helper. It calls all necessary helpers to complete the chroot stage.

.SH OPTIONS
lh_chroot has no options (FIXME).

.SH CHROOT HELPERS
Here is the complete list of available chroot helper commands. See their man pages for additional documentation.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_apt\fR(1)" 4
manages /etc/apt/apt.conf.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_debianchroot\fR(1)" 4
manages /etc/debian_chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_hacks\fR(1)" 4
executes hacks in chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_hooks\fR(1)" 4
executes hooks in chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_hosts\fR(1)" 4
manages /etc/hosts.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_interactive\fR(1)" 4
makes build interactive.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_linuximage\fR(1)" 4
manage /etc/kernel-img.conf.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_localhooks\fR(1)" 4
executes local hooks in chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_localincludes\fR(1)" 4
copies local files into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_localization\fR(1)" 4
installs localization packages into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_localpackages\fR(1)" 4
installs local packages into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_localpackageslists\fR(1)" 4
installs local packages lists into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_packages\fR(1)" 4
installs packages into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_packageslists\fR(1)" 4
installs packages lists into chroot.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_proc\fR(1)" 4
mounts /proc.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_resolv\fR(1)" 4
manages /etc/resolv.conf.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_sources\fR(1)" 4
manages /etc/apt/apt.conf.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_symlinks\fR(1)" 4
convers symlinks.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_sysfs\fR(1)" 4
mounts /sys.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_sysvinit\fR(1)" 4
configures sysvinit.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_sysvrc\fR(1)" 4
manages /usr/sbin/policy-rc.d.
.IP "\fIlh_chroot_tasks\fR(1)" 4
installs tasks into chroot.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlive\-helper\fR(7)
.PP
This program is a part of live-helper.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs against live\-helper <\fIhttp://packages.qa.debian.org/live\-helper/\fR>.

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about the Debian Live project can be found at <\fIhttp://debian\-live.alioth.debian.org/\fR> and <\fIhttp://wiki.debian.org/DebianLive/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
live\-helper was written by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel@debian.org\fR> for the Debian project.
