.TH MAKE-LIVE.CONF 8 "Mon,  4 Sep 2006" "0.99" "Debian Live framework"

.SH NAME
make-live.conf \- configuration file for make-live(8)

.SH DESCRIPTION
make-live is a utility to build Debian Live systems. It takes a Debian mirror as an input and outputs a live system image (ISO image for CDs and DVDs, or tarball for netboot). make-live is still in the early stage of development, but has basic functionality and can be run successfully.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LIVE_ARCHITECTURE
build an image for another architecture than the autodetected one. This is usefull for e.g. building i386 images on an amd64 machine. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-a, \-\-architecture can be used (Default: `dpkg-architecture -qDEB_BUILD_ARCH`).
.TP
.B LIVE_BOOTAPPEND
specifies additional bootparameters to the kernel (Default: none).
.TP
.B LIVE_CONFIG
uses another configuration file in addition to the default one, if existing, in /etc/make-live.conf. Settings in the additional configuration file do overwrite the settings from /etc/make-live.conf. Instead of this variable, the flag \-c or \-\-config can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_DISTRIBUTION
specifies the distribution to be used. Allowed values are all Debian distributions (oldstable, stable, testing, unstable), although only unstable (default) is possible for now. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-d, \-\-distribution can be used (Default: unstable).
.TP
.B LIVE_FLAVOUR
specifies the bootstrap flavour. This can be either standard (default) or minimal. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-f, \-\-flavour can be used.
.TP
.B LIVE_FILESYSTEM
specifies the filesystem to be used for the root filesystem image
(Default: squashfs).
.TP
.B LIVE_GENERIC_INDICES
specifies if generic Debian indices should be used (Default: enable).
.TP
.B LIVE_FTPPROXY
specifies the value of ftp_proxy inside the chrooted environment. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-\-ftp-proxy can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_HOOK
specifies one or more commands to be executed in the chroot. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-\-hook can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_INCLUDE_ROOT
specifies a file or a directory to be included into the chroot. Instead of this environment variable. the flag \-\-include-root can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_KERNEL
specifies the kernel image flavour. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-k, \-\-kernel can be used.
.TP
.BI LIVE_MANIFEST
specifies the last package to install before creating the filesystem.manifest-desktop list, mainly used with ubuntu live, in those system it should probably be set to "ubuntu-live" for ubuntu desktop livecd's (Default: do not create filesystem.manifest-desktop).
.TP
.B LIVE_MIRROR
specifies the debian mirror where make-live will download the packages from. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-m, \-\-mirror LIVE_MIRROR can be used (Default: http://ftp.debian.org/debian).
.B LIVE_MIRROR_KEY
specifies the archive signing key. Instead of this environment variable, the flav \-\-mirror-key can be used (Default: http://ftp-master.debian.org/ziyi_key_2006.asc).
.TP
.B LIVE_PACKAGES
specifies a list of packages to install into the chroot. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-\-packakges can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_PACKAGE_LIST
specifies a file which contains a list of packages to install.
.TP
.B LIVE_PROXY_FTP
specifies the value of ftp_proxy inside the chrooted environment. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-\-ftp-proxy can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_PROXY_HTTP
specifies the value of http_proxy inside the chrooted environment. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-\-http-proxy can be used (Default: empty).
.TP
.B LIVE_ROOT
specifies the root directory where the images/tarballs are built. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-r or \-\-root can bse used (Default: `pwd`/debian-live).
.B LIVE_SECTIONS
specifies the debian sections. Instead of this environment variable, the flag \-s, \-\-sections can be used (Default: main).
.B LIVE_SERVER_ADDRESS
specifies the IP address or hostname of the netboot server (Default: none).
.TP
.B LIVE_SERVER_PATH
specifies the directory of the chroot on the netboot server (Default: none).
.TP
.B LIVE_TEMPLATES
specifies a directory to be used for templates instead of the default one.
(Default: "/usr/share/make-live/templates")
.TP
.B LIVE_TYPE
specifies the image type.

.SH BUGS
.B make-live
works fully on amd64 and i386, partially on alpha, hppa, ia64, mips, mipsel, powerpc, s390 and sparc. Other architectures, such as arm and m68k, as well as non-linux ports of Debian, like hurd-i386, are currently not supported.

.SH HOMEPAGE
Debian Live project <http://live.debian.net/>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make-live(8)

.SH AUTHOR
make-live was written by Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org> and Marco Amadori
<marco.amadori@gmail.com>.
